# Identity and Consent Management meeting

#### *18th of October 2023*

<br>

## Attendees


| Companies | Attendees |
| --------- | --------- |
| Telefónica | Jesús Peña, Diego Gonzalez, Diego Yonadi |
| Deutsche Telekom AG | Rafal Artych, Axel Nennker |
| Vodafone  | Eric Murray, Sachin Kumar |
| T-Mobile US | Murat Karabulut |
| Ericsson  | Jan Friman, Kamel Idir |
| Centillion | Nicholas Venezia |
| Nokia     | Tanja De Groot |
| Singtel   | Foo Ming Hui |
| KDDI      | Tetsuya Chiba (千葉 哲也) |

<br>

## Agenda

1. Recent updates & recap
2. Issues and PRs. Priority discussions:
    - Discussion on Issue #32. "The concept of purpose" and PR #75 "Doc update with purpose agreement".
    - Discussion on Issue #57 "Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG".
    - Discussion on Issues #67 "Make the technical ruleset description precise" & #72 "Have we reached a final ruleset in defining the usage of 2 and 3 legged tokens" and PR #68 "Update CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md".
3. Action Points 
4. AoB

<br>

## Recent updates & recap

Telefonica presents the status of WG:

- 2 issues closed since last call 04/10
  - Issue #45 "Add missing details in authN-authZ doc".
    - As agreed in the last WG call (04/10), PR #55 has been merged and issue #45 fixed/closed.
  - Issue #71 (cloned from GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project) "Front-end flow with MSISDN login_hint".
    - Closed by issue creator (Chris - Vonage). As per last WG call (04/10), the issue will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review.

- 2 PRs merged/closed since last call 04/10
  - PR #55 "Include network-based auth info in authN-AuthZ doc".
    - As agreed in the last WG call (04/10), PR #55 has been merged and issue #45 fixed/closed.
  - PR #73 "IdentityAndConsentManagement meeting notes 2023-10-04"

- No new issues raised since last call 04/10
  - N/A

- 8 ongoing issues #21, #32, #57, #59, #67, #69, #70 & #72. Main updates on:
  - Issue #21 "Definition of scenarios for consent management".
    - No updates about this issue from last call.
  - Issue #32 "The concept of purpose". 
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**
  - Issue #57 "Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG". Raised by Telefonica.
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**
  - Issue #59 "documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagram update purpose/scope". Raised by Orange.
    - To be fixed by PR #75.
  - Issue #67 "Make the technical ruleset description precise.". Raised by DT.
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**
  - Issues #69, #70 cloned from GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project.
    - As per last WG call (04/10), these issues will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review.
  - Issue #72 "Have we reached a final ruleset in defining the usage of 2 and 3 legged tokens".
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**

- 2 new PR since last call 04/10
  - PR #74 "Consent related use cases (former PR#33)". Related with issue #21.
    - It restores PR #33 "Consent-related use cases" which was accidentally CLOSED by Robert Ludovic (Orange). It is set as DRAFT.
  - PR #75 "Doc update with purpose agreement". Related to issues #32 and #59.
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**

- 2 ongoing PRs 
  - PR #62 "Create CAMARA-API-AuthN-Inventory.md". Related with issue #57.
    - Set to `Draft` for the moment. No updates from last call.
  - PR #68 "Update CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md". Related with issue #67.
    - **To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.**

<br>

## Issues and PRs

| **Issue** | Owner | Description |
| ----------| ----- | ----------- |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| [#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/45) ([~~PR#55~~](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/55)) | Deutsche Telekom AG | ~~**Add missing details in authN-authZ doc**~~<br>CLOSED. As agreed in the last WG call (04/10), PR #55 has been merged and issue #45 fixed/closed. |
| [#71](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/71) | Vonage | ~~**Chapter 6 - Front-end flow with MSISDN login_hint**~~<br>CLOSED by issue creator (Chris - Vonage). As per last WG call (04/10), the issue will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review. |
| **New issues** |  |  |
| N/A |  |  |
| **Open issues** |  |  | 
| [#21](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/21) ([PR#74](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/74))| Deutsche Telekom AG | **Definition of scenarios for consent management**<br> Original PR #33 has been restored in PR #74. |
| [#32](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/32) ([PR#75](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/75)) | Orange | **The concept of purpose**<br>Jesús (Telefónica) provides an update on the current status of the issue. A new PR (#75) has been created to fix issue #59 (updating the flows with the final agreement) and to include the agreement in the CAMARA documentation (`CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md` document). This PR has been updated shortly before the call to also document the final agreed format for the scope value: `dpv:<dpvValue>#<technicalParameter>`.<br>The PR has already been approved by representatives of Orange and DT and we should be able to merge it. Rafal (DT) as code owner is asked to check it and give his approval to merge the PR when possible.<br>Issue #32 will be closed if the PR is merged, and the discussion on medium-term alternatives will be continued in a separate issue as agreed in the previous working group call (04/10).<br><br>- Eric (Vodafone) asks about the format of the purpose (scope field). Whether only the technical scope should be included in yaml. Jesús confirms.<br>- Eric asks about the documented "strong recommendation" and whether it is mandatory or not. Jesús (on behalf of Orange, DT and Telefonica who reached the agreement) explains that it is documented that way, but API clients are required to use this format to ensure interoperability. So de facto it would be mandatory in the short term. Eric points out that it's not very well explained, so may need further clarification. Agreed to go with this wording and add some clarification later if needed.<br>- Murat (T-Mobile US) asks what would happen if we needed a DPV purpose value that is not defined in W3C. And how to include new values in W3C. This is a good point to consider if we run out of W3C DPV values, hopefully this will not happen.<br>- Murat also asks about the use of the API name. What happens if we have multiple versions? Whether to include the version in the api name. Jesús points out that so far the version is not included. That's a good point, probably something to consider. Eric points out that in Mobile Connect there is a version param to indicate the version of the API to be used. Eric feels that this should be different from the scope parameter as in Mobile Connect. This can be considered in a new issue for the medium term evolution of the solution. |
| [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/57) ([PR#62](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/62)) | Telefonica | **Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG**<br>Jesús (Telefónica) provides an update on the current status of the issue. Different approaches are proposed with their pros and cons. It seems that we all agree to try to decouple the API specifications as much as possible from business and legal dependencies for the different local markets. But there is no proposed solution that perfectly fits the needs of every CAMARA participant.<br>- Eric points out that Telefonica's proposal is a good, but it shifts the problem to the openid well-known file. He asks for specification of what should be included in well-known. Do API vendors need to coordinate to agree on what is in OIDC well-known? How to handle cases like number verification where the CC is not valid?<br>- Diego (Telefonica) explains that from his point of view there is no perfect solution, we may have to choose what to do and add the necessary changes.<br>- Murat indicates that they're working on a solution that might be valid, which will be presented next week. Jesús asks to raise the solution here in this working group when possible.<br>- Axel asks Diego to write down the analysis raised as a comment in the issue.<br><br>This discussion will be elevated to TSC. |
| [#59](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/59) ([PR#75](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/75)) | Orange | **documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagram update purpose/scope**<br> To be fixed by PR #75. To be closed when merged. |
| [#67](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/67) ([PR#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/68)) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Make the technical ruleset description precise.**<br>PR #68 Owner (Shilpa - DT) was not on the call so this topic will be taken offline. Also, this issue is related to Issue #72 which will be discussed at the GSMA OGW meeting on the 20th, so it is noted that it may be better to see how the GSMA discussion concludes and then update and complete PR #68. |
| [#69](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/69) | Vonage | **Chapter 6 - Front-end flow authorisation flow unauthenticated**<br> As per last WG call (04/10), these issues will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review. |
| [#70](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/70) | Vonage | **Chapter 6 - Front-end flow PII leakage?**<br> As per last WG call (04/10), these issues will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review. |
| [#72](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/72) | GSMA | **Have we reached a final ruleset in defining the usage of 2 and 3 legged tokens**<br> The use of 2-legged vs 3-legged access will be discussed at the GSMA OGW meeting on the 20th. This issue will need to be updated with the outcome of the discussions at the GSMA meeting. |

<br>

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20231018-01 | T-Mobile US (Murat) | Pending | Provide his proposal to adress issue #57. |
| 20231018-02 | Telefónica (Diego) | Pending | Include comment in issue #57 with the analysis raised in today's call. |

<br>

## AoB

- Next call schedule: 1st Nov. 2023