# Identity and Consent Management meeting

#### *4th of October 2023*

<br>

## Attendees


| Companies | Attendees |
| --------- | --------- |
| Telefónica | Jesús Peña, Diego Gonzalez |
| Deutsche Telekom AG | Rafal Artych, Axel Nennker |
| Vonage    | Chris Howell |
| Ericsson  | Jan Friman, Elisabeth Müller, Kamel Idir |
| T-Mobile US | Murat Karabulut |
| GSMA      | Tom van Pelt, Mark Cornall |
| Centillion | Nicholas Venezia |
| Gapask    | Rajesh Murthy |
| Orange    | Robert Ludovic |
| Vodafone  | Sachin Kumar |
| KDDI      | Tetsuya Chiba (千葉 哲也) |

<br>

## Agenda

1. Recent updates & recap
2. Issues and PRs. Priority discussions:
    - Discussion on Issue #32. "The concept of purpose" and PR #64 "Telefonica Orange table comparison".
    - Discussion on Issue #57 "Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG" and PR #62 "Create CAMARA-API-AuthN-Inventory.md".
    - Discussion on Issue #67 "Make the technical ruleset description precise." and PR #68 "Update CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md".
3. Action Points 
4. AoB

<br>

## Recent updates & recap

Telefonica presents the status of WG:

- 2 issues closed since last call 20/09
  - Issue #46 "Extend AuthN-AuthZ doc with detailed CIBA flow description".
  - Issue #65 (formerly #63) "Usage of OAUTH2.0 client credentials in SimSwap API".

- 2 PRs merged/closed since last call 20/09
  - PR #66 "IdentityAndConsentManagement meeting notes 2023-09-20"
  - PR #33 "Consent-related use cases". Related with issue #21.
    - No updates since last call. It was accidentally CLOSED by Robert Ludovic (Orange). He didn't manage to reopen it in a new PR. It will be taken offline. Robert will share the document with Jesús (Telefónica) and see how to fix it to restore the original PR content. 

- 5 new issue raised since last call 20/09
  - Issue #67 "Make the technical ruleset description precise.". Raised by DT.
    - To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.
  - Issues #69, #70, #71 cloned from GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project right before the call.
  - Issue #72 "Have we reached a final ruleset in defining the usage of 2 and 3 legged tokens" open right before the call.

- 5 ongoing issues #21, #32, #45, #57 & #59. Main updates on:
  - Issue #21 "Definition of scenarios for consent management".
    - No updates about this issue from last call.
  - Issue #32 "The concept of purpose". 
    - To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.
  - Issue #45 "Add missing details in authN-authZ doc".
    - Proposed to be closed. Dawid (DT) has been kindly requested to contribute to PR #55 with any clarification needed in `CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md` document. But no updates since last call.
  - Issue #57 "Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG". Raised by Telefonica.
    - To be discussed further in this call as a priority topic in today's agenda.
  - Issue #59 "documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagram update purpose/scope". Raised by Orange.
    - Documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagrams should be updated for POST/ authorize to use `scope` word instead of `purpose` word. A new PR will be created once we get agreement on issue #32. This new PR will correct the flow accordingly, and include the information about the agreed solution in the relevant doc sections.

- 1 new PR since last call 20/09
  - PR #68 "Update CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md". Related with issue #67.

- 3 ongoing PRs 
  - PR #55 "Include network-based auth info in authN-AuthZ doc". Related with issue #45
  - PR #62 "Create CAMARA-API-AuthN-Inventory.md". Related with issue #57.
  - PR #64 "Telefonica Orange table comparison". Related with issue #32.
  

<br>

## Issues and PRs

| **Issue** | Owner | Description |
| ----------| ----- | ----------- |
| **Closed issues** |  |  |
| [#46](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/46) | Deutsche Telekom AG | ~~**Extend AuthN-AuthZ doc with detailed CIBA flow description**~~<br> CLOSED as agreed in the last WG meeting call [20/09](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes/MOM-2023-09-20.md). |
| [#65 (formerly #63)](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/65) | Deutsche Telekom AG | ~~**Usage of OAUTH2.0 client credentials in SimSwap API**~~<br> CLOSED as agreed in the last WG meeting call [20/09](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes/MOM-2023-09-20.md). |
| **New issues** |  |  |
| [#67](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/67) ([PR#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/68)) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Make the technical ruleset description precise.**<br> Not covered in today's call. Time running out on previous discussions and agenda items. And PR Owner (Shilpa - DT) was not on the call. |
| [#69](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/69) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Chapter 6 - Front-end flow authorisation flow unauthenticated**<br> Issue cloned from the GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project just before the call. As stated in #71, the issue will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review. |
| [#70](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/70) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Chapter 6 - Front-end flow PII leakage?**<br> Issue cloned from the GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project just before the call. As stated in #71, the issue will be discussed in the context of the GSMA technical stream, and anything that needs to be piggybacked into CAMARA will be raised later for everyone in CAMARA to review. |
| [#71](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/71) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Chapter 6 - Front-end flow with MSISDN login_hint**<br>- Issue cloned from GSMA `Open-Gateway-Documents` github project right before the call<br>- Vonage (Chris) explains the issue.<br>- Telefónica points out that this is not the place to discuss this as Telco Finder and the aggregation model mentioned in the issue are agnostic to CAMARA. In CAMARA NBI we just talk about API invoker which could potentially be the application backend, an aggregator, etc. Telco Finder is GSMA Open Gateway component that people in CAMARA may not be aware of and cannot decide on. Telefonica states that the discussion should happen in the GSMA and it would be fine to piggyback whatever is agreed in the GSMA to CAMARA if applicable. These issues even refer to GSMA Chapter 6 documentation and part of the flows applicable to the Agregators.<br>- Apart from the fact of Telco Finder and GSMA specific stuff, Telefonica states that the issue talks about the security concerns of using MSISDN as login_hint, which is not defined in the agreed auth code flow, so if that is Vonage's proposal, the issue should be to include that update first, and we can discuss on any security issue and how to resolve it. <br>- Tom (GSMA) says that OGW is not a closed group, it's open to any GSMA member and any CAMARA participant could join if they are interested.<br>- Rajesh (Gapask) asks about visibility and raise some new question around login_hint. Jesús (Telefónica) encaurage Rajesh to open any new issue in the project for whatever question he may have on what refers to identity and consent in CAMARA. But the call has to continue with the scheduled agenda as we are running out of time. |
| [#72](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/72) | GSMA | **Have we reached a final ruleset in defining the usage of 2 and 3 legged tokens**<br> Issue was open a few minutes before the call. It will be taken offline. |
| **Open issues** |  |  | 
| [#21](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/21) ([PR#33](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/33))| Deutsche Telekom AG | **Definition of scenarios for consent management**<br> No updates about this issue from last call. PR #33 was accidentally CLOSED as stated above and we will see offline how to restore the original PR content. |
| [#32](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/32) ([PR#64](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/64)) | Orange | **The concept of purpose**<br> - Robert Ludovic (Orange) asks if we can write this in GSMA. Telefonica indicates that it would be ok to move the content finally included to GSMA, either to the playbook or to the relevant chapter in GitHub.<br>- Jesús (Telefonica) says that a new PR can be created to fix issue #59 (updating the flows with the final agreement) and to include the agreement in the CAMARA documentation. And the corresponding flows in the GSMA github repository could be updated accordingly.<br>It is proposed to close issue #32 when this is done, and to continue the discussion on medium-term alternatives in a separate issue, starting a "clean" discussion, as this issue is already too long on github. |
| [#45](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/45) ([PR#55](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/55)) | Deutsche Telekom AG | **Add missing details in authN-authZ doc**<br> Proposed to be closed. Dawid (DT) has been kindly requested to contribute to PR #55 with any clarification needed in `CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md` document. But no updates since last call.<br>Jesús (Telefónica) will add a comment to the PR suggesting that it be merged as it covers the original scope of the issues and the PR has been open for weeks. If Dawid (DT) or any other CAMARA participant wants to clarify something else on "header enrichment" or any other topic, a new issue/PR can be opened and they can contribute on their own schedule. |
| [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/57) ([PR#62](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/62)) | Telefonica | **Align securitySchemes and security of CAMARA API specs with IdentityAndConsentManagement WG**<br> - Telefonica explains the proposal included in the last comments of the github issue.<br>- Jan (Ericsson) sees a good idea to decouple API from auth method, but thinks that every grant should be included or developers will not know…<br>- Diego (Telefónica) explains that developer will get info in provisioning phase in any case.<br>- Chris indicates that developer does not know the CSP. <br>- Diego indicates that he considers a pre-requisite that a flow is available for every CSP in a flow in a given market. Jesus points out that otherwise, if API provider can basically decide on their own what flow to use, we are not standarising anything in this WG. At least, in same local markets under same local regulations the flow to access CAMARA APIs must be same.<br>- Chris queries what will be the market size, because may be different in different countries.<br>- Axel (DT). Make discoverable is great but it’s moving information a level down to developers. Considers that openidconnect is not enough info, but adding all oauth2 info with every detail per grant is quite ugly. Thinks it should be possible to use a hint that id/secret is ok in the .yaml, (this includes client credentials).<br>- Telefonica agrees that including everything won't escalate and will be misleading.<br><br> We ran out of time and the discussion will continue offline... |
| [#59](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/issues/59) | Orange | **documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagram update purpose/scope**<br> Documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md diagrams should be updated for POST/ authorize to use `scope` word instead of `purpose` word. A new PR will be created once we get agreement on issue #32. This new PR will correct the flow accordingly, and include the information about the agreed solution in the relevant doc sections. |


<br>

## Action Points

| AP Identifier | AP Owner | Status | Description |
| ------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| 20230712-05 | Sub-Project participants | Done | ~~Agree on the technical solution to be implemented for purpose management as a result of the practical scenario comparison.~~ |
| 20230920-01 | Telefónica (Jesús) | Done | ~~Include the securityScheme proposal in issue comments for everyone to review.~~ |

<br>

## AoB

- Next call schedule: 18th Oct. 2023